the White House has called for an
investigation into the death of a
Turkish American woman who was shot in
the occupied West Bank Israel's military
says its investigating reports that its
troops killed the woman after opening
fire on demonstrators Palestinian media
say she was shot in the head during a
march by activists in beta a town that
has experienced repeated attacks by
Israeli
settlers our correspondent in Jerusalem
Emily gordin joins us now Emily tell us
more about this woman and the
demonstration that she was attending
when she was shot
a yes Brent the activist uh in question
has been identified as Aur um isi AI she
is a dual citizen of both the US and
turkey and she was in the occupied West
Bank with the so-called International
solidarity movement to protest an
Israeli settlement in the
area now this settlement in question was
recently legalized by the Israeli
government even though all Israeli
settlements in the occupied West Bank
are widely uh considered illegal under
international law and Israel has been
widely criticized for allowing them to
happen so protests against Israeli
settlements in the West Bank are not
uncommon um but in fact in recent months
some of them have um Turned violent and
that is what is said to have happened in
this case as well this case ended up in
clashes with the Israel Defense
Forces which then which then led to
shots being fired which ultimately
killed this activist and Palestinian as
well as Turkish officials now say that
it was in fact Israeli bullets that
killed her and imily what is Israel
saying about the allegations that she
was shot by the Israel Defense
Forces so the IDF has not confirmed this
they have said that were responding to
quote violent activity and they fired at
an instigator who was throwing rocks at
them and who posed a threat to them now
um these claims are now the incident in
itself is now quote under review and
they're looking into these claims which
is also something that the US has asked
for um but Palestinian as well as
Turkish officials um have responded and
and claim that this killing essentially
reflects um how Israel is intending
ifying its um its repression of
Palestinian protests in the occupied
West Bank but if you look at the West
Bank that occupied West Bank as a whole
um over the past few months we've seen
that violence between Palestinians and
Israelis has intensified has increased
not least because of the war in Gaza
following hamas's Terror attacks on
October 7th but also um in light of the
rapid expansion of Israeli settlements
in uh the occupied West Bank and there
are serious concerns that this violence
could escalate even further DW's Emily
gordin in Jerusalem Emily thank
you well Germany's foreign minister Ana
barbach has warned Israel that what she
called a purely military approach will
not solve the crisis in Gaza at a
meeting in Tel Aviv Beach told her
counterpart Israel cuts that Israel
needed to make a deal to end the war in
Gaza and bring back hostages held by
Hamas she also urged the country to end
its settlements in the occupied West
Bank and to punish settlers who commit
violence against Palestinians barbach
later met with Palestinian authorities
leaders in the West
Bank all right I want to get some
analysis now with Natasha Hall she's a
senior fellow with the Middle East
program at the center for strategic and
international studies in Washington DC
it's good to have you with us the German
foreign Minister she has visited Israel
practically every month since the Hamas
October 7th Terror attacks last year
despite that the war rages on there is
no ceasefire so what have these visits
achieved well that's a great question
and I will tell you that Americans are
asking the same question about their
diplomats right now we've been seriously
talking about a ceasefire since February
uh and yet every time we see
talks ratchet up as we had in past weeks
that this is the last chance nothing
seems to to cataliz and I would say
probably a a big part of that for the
United States and for Germany is is the
ongoing uh military support and and
diplomatic support for Israel uh moving
forward yeah you know you mentioned
Americans and know the efforts by the US
Secretary of State does Germany have any
influence
on Israel any more than that of the
United
States I I would say certainly not more
than the United States but Germany is
one of Israel's biggest trading partners
and and also uh the source of many of
its arm sales actually I think second to
the United States um so so it is a
significant player here and it has been
a significant player in mediation in
past flareups either in Lebanon or in
Gaza in the past 20 years um but because
of these the sort of unabashed support
that we've seen from both Germany and
the United States in the past 11 months
uh since October 7th um we haven't seen
a real significant shift um in Israeli
Behavior or uh acquiescence to any kind
of ceasefire uh negotiations um but I
would I would definitely say that you
know Germany would come and any other
country for that matter would come far
second or third to to the United States
in terms of being able to to use its
influence fluence um to move Israel in
that direction and how about from the
Palestinians perspective is there
anything that Germany can do Beyond
checkbook diplomacy to bring about a
ceasefire in Gaza and to end the illegal
settlements in the West
Bank yeah I mean you called it checkbook
diplomacy I would say it's just tangible
measures I think there's a lot of finger
wagging that goes on but at the end of
the day if the arm sales don't stop then
Israel has no actual motivation um to
change course um but I would say that
Germany does play a role in setting the
tone um which I think is already been
happening in the past week it's a
significant change of tone uh for
Germany compared to the past 11 months
um where it has had uh very steadfast
support for Israel regardless and has
has really shied away from even calling
for a ceasefire um really until very
very recently but I think Germany does
set the tone for the rest of Europe when
it comes to Israel and so it it could
potentially begin to to show a shift
there in the um the full-on support for
Israel moving forward and give Netanyahu
the prime minister of Israel a bit of
notice that that time is running out
Natasha Hall from the center for
strategic and International Studies we
appreciate your time and your analysis
tonight thank
you thank you